Art quotes are either revolution plagiarism - paul gauguin 
Art is either revolution or plagiarism. Paul Gauguin 
art quotes great artist simplifier vincent van gogh 
The great artist is the simplifier. Vincent Van Gogh 
art quotes painting self discovery every good artist paints what jackson pollock 
Painting is self-discovery. Every good artist paints what he is. Jackson Pollock 
art quotes had much fire many plans claude money 
I had so much fire in me and so many plans. Claude Monet 
art quotes artist cannot fail success charles horton cooley 
An artist cannot fail; it is a success to be one. Charles Cooley 
art quotes draw you must close your eyes sing pablo picasso
To draw you must close your eyes and sing. Pablo Picasso 
art quotes meant disturb science reassures georges braque 
Art is meant to disturb, science reassures. Georges Braque 
art quotes world always seems brighter when just made something that wasnt there before neil gaiman 
The world always seems brighter when you’ve just made something that wasn’t there before. Neil Gaiman 
art quotes must life must belong everybody marina abramovic 
Art must be life — it must belong to everybody. Marina Abramović 
art quotes enables find ourselves lose same time thomas merton 
Art enables us to find ourselves and lose ourselves at the same time. Thomas Merton 
The chief enemy of creativity is ‘good’ sense. Pablo Picasso 
Let’s get a little crazy here. Bob Ross
Every act of creation is first an act of destruction. Pablo Picasso
We must never forget that art is not a form of propaganda; it is a form of truth. John F. Kennedy
Life is creation – self and circumstances, the raw material. Dorothy Richardson
Art is the only serious thing in the world. And the artist is the only person who is never serious. Oscar Wilde
You can look at a picture for a week and never think of it again. You can also look at the picture for a second and think of it all your life. Joan Miro
If I paint something, I don’t want to have to explain what it is. Bob Ross
An artist should never be a prisoner of himself, prisoner of style, prisoner of reputation, prisoner of success. Henri Matisse
Where the spirit does not work with the hand, there is no art. Leonardo da Vinci 
Tell your own story, and you will be interesting. Louise Bourgeois 
I never paint dreams or nightmares. I paint my own reality. Frida Kahlo
Creativity is allowing yourself to make mistakes. Art is knowing which ones to keep. Scott Adams
It is better to be high-spirited even though one makes more mistakes, than to be narrow-minded and all to prudent. Vincent van Gogh
The power of nature is such that it’s what all art strives to be. The more we can get in tune with the harmony of the planet, the more our art can benefit from that relationship. Rick Rubin
Bring your humanity to your art. Bring your art to humanity. Maxime Lagacé
The greater the artist, the greater the doubt. Perfect confidence is granted to the less talented as a consolation prize. Robert Hughes
All art is a kind of confession, more or less oblique. All artists, if they are to survive, are forced, at last, to tell the whole story; to vomit the anguish up. James Baldwin
Our primary function is to create an emotion and our secondary function is to sustain that emotions. Alfred Hitchcock
Art is standing with one hand extended into the universe and one hand extended into the world, and letting ourselves be a conduit for passing energy. Albert Einstein
You have to systematically create confusion, it sets creativity free. Everything that is contradictory creates life. Salvador Dalí
I have already settled it for myself so flattery and criticism go down the same drain and I am quite free. Georgia O’Keeffe
Never worry about being obsessive. I like obsessive people. Obsessive people make great art. Susan Sontag
I think being different, going against the grain of society is the greatest thing in the world. Elijah Wood
In the mind of every artist there is a masterpiece. Kai Greene
To be an artist, you need to exist in a world of silence. Louise Bourgeois
Every artist dips his brush in his own soul, and paints his own nature into his pictures. Henry Ward Beecher
The best reason to paint is that there is no reason to paint. Keith Haring 
The counterfeit innovator is wildly self-confident. The real one is scared to death. Steven Pressfield (The War Of Art)
If you ask me what I came to do in this world, I, an artist, will answer you: I am here to live out loud. Emile Zola
Art is not a mirror to hold up to society, but a hammer with which to shape it. Leon Trotsky
The principles of true art is not to portray, but to evoke. Jerzy Kosinski
In the creative state a man is taken out of himself. E. M. Forster
I wanted to start a revolution, using art to build the sort of society I myself envisioned. Yayoi Kusama
A work is finished when an artist realizes his intentions. Rembrandt
Art wasn’t supposed to look nice; it was supposed to make you feel something. Rainbow Rowell
An artist’s only concern is to shoot for some kind of perfection, and on his own terms, not anyone else’s. J. D. Salinger
The works must be conceived with fire in the soul but executed with clinical coolness. Joan Miro
Creativity gives hope that there can be a worthwhile idea. Edward de Bono
Only when he no longer knows what he is doing does the painter do good things. Edgar Degas
A woman’s perfume tells more about her than her handwriting. Christian Dior
Art speaks where words are unable to explain. Unknown
I like nonsense, it wakes up the brain cells. Dr. Seuss
Art is never finished, only abandoned. Leonardo da Vinci
Painting is poetry that is seen rather than felt, and poetry is painting that is felt rather than seen. Leonardo da Vinci
Art is the concrete representation of our most subtle feelings. Agnes Martin
Bad artists copy. Good artists steal. Pablo Picasso 
Everything you can imagine is real. Pablo Picasso
The only art I’ll ever study is stuff that I can steal from. David Bowie
I am my own experiment. I am my own work of art. Madonna
I put my heart and my soul into my work, and have lost my mind in the process. Vincent van Gogh
I dream of painting and then I paint my dream. Vincent Van Gogh
If you hear a voice within you saying, ”You are not a painter,” then by all means paint… and that voice will be silenced. Vincent van Gogh
Art is my life and my life is art. Yoko Ono
Every artist was first an amateur. Ralph Waldo Emerson
The moment you think you understand a great work of art, it’s dead for you. Oscar Wilde
A picture is a poem without words. Horace
Without tradition art is a flock of sheep without a shepherd. Without innovation it is a corpse. Winston Churchill
I guess I’m a little weird. I like to talk to trees and animals. That’s okay though; I have more fun than most people. Bob Ross
You don’t take a photograph, you make it. Ansel Adams
Have no fear of perfection – you’ll never reach it. Salvador Dalí 
I am not strange. I am just not normal. Salvador Dalí
Those who do not want to imitate anything, produce nothing. Salvador Dalí
If people knew how hard I worked to get my mastery, it wouldn’t seem so wonderful at all. Michelangelo
The essence of all beautiful art, all great art, is gratitude. Friedrich Nietzsche
I paint self-portraits because I am so often alone, because I am the person I know best. Frida Kahlo
Human salvation lies in the hands of the creatively maladjusted. Martin Luther King Jr
The most beautiful thing we can experience is the mysterious. It is the source of all true art and science. Albert Einstein
True art is characterized by an irresistible urge in the creative artist. Albert Einstein
Beauty will save the world. Dosteovsky
Painter, paint! Salvador Dalí
Art must destroy violence, only it can do it. Leo Tolstoy
Creativity is contagious. Pass it on. Albert Einstein
Art should tell what the system does not. @AmuseChimp
Art is the expression of the profoundest thoughts in the simplest way. Albert Einstein
Art is to look at not to criticize. Edgar Allen Poe
Art is a way of recognizing oneself. Louise Bourgeois
Personality is everything in art and poetry. Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
You study, you learn, but you guard the original naivete. Henri Matisse
Art lives from constraints and dies from freedom. Leonardo da Vinci
Painting is silent poetry. Plutarch
Sometimes with art, it is important just to look. Marina Abramović
Controversy is part of the nature of art and creativity. Yoko Ono
Don’t think about making art… Andy Warhol
Every good painter paints what he is. Jackson Pollock 
A true masterpiece does not tell everything. Albert Camus
Intensity is all that matters in painting. John Piper
To be an artist is to believe in life. Henry Moore
Art is a lie that makes us realize truth. Pablo Picasso
Art is the elimination of the unnecessary. Pablo Picasso
Art is a line around your thoughts. Gustav Klimt
Art is coming face to face with yourself. Jackson Pollock
I shut my eyes in order to see. Paul Gauguin 
Art = a mad search for individualism. Paul Gauguin
The painter has the Universe in his mind and hands. Leonardo da Vinci
Perspective is to painting what the bridle is to the horse, the rudder to a ship. Leonardo da Vinci
The artist sees what others only catch a glimpse of. Leonardo da Vinci
Think eight hours, work two hours. Mirko Ilic
Choose only one master – Nature. Rembrandt
Art is not a thing, it is a way. Elbert Hubbard
To create one’s own world takes courage. Georgia O’Keeffe
I am not an adventurer by choice but by fate. Vincent van Gogh 
Every child is an artist. The problem is how to remain an artist once we grow up. Pablo Picasso
I shall be so brief that I have already finished. Salvador Dalí
It is absurd to look for perfection. Camille Pissarro
I must have flowers, always, and always. Claude Monet
Life is too short to remain unnoticed. Salvador Dalí
Knowing how to look is a way of inventing. Salvador Dalí
I’m in fine fettle and fired with a desire to paint. Claude Monet
In order to be irreplaceable one must always be different. Coco Chanel
To avoid criticism, do nothing, say nothing, and be nothing. Elbert Hubbard
To create, one must first question everything. Eileen Gray
Everything starts from a dot. Wassily Kandinsky
To gain freedom is to gain simplicity. Joan Miro
The more I work, the more I want to work. Joan Miro
I work like a gardener. Joan Miro
At the heart of all great art is an essential melancholy. Federico Garcia Lorca
The only thing I know is that I paint because I need to. Frida Kahlo 
Don’t pay any attention to what they write about you. Just measure it in inches. Andy Warhol
Inspiration does exist, but it must find you working. Pablo Picasso
It is not a torment to be an artist. It is a privilege. Louise Bourgeois
Don’t be fooled by success and money. Don’t let anything come between you and your work. Louise Bourgeois
When you do things for their own sake, that’s when you create your best work. That’s when it’s art. Naval Ravikant
Art is not a handicraft, it is the transmission of feeling the artist has experienced. Leo Tolstoy
To be great, art has to point somewhere. Anne Lamott
When I think of art I think of beauty. Beauty is the mystery of life. It is not in the eye it is in the mind. In our minds there is awareness of perfection. Agnes Martin
The most important thing about art is to work. Nothing else matters except sitting down every day and trying. Steven Pressfield (The War Of Art)
Remember one rule of thumb: the more scared we are of a work or calling, the more sure we can be that we have to do it. Steven Pressfield (The War Of Art)
All you need to paint is a few tools, a little instruction, and a vision in your mind. Bob Ross
I started painting as a hobby when I was little. I didn’t know I had any talent. I believe talent is just a pursued interest. Anybody can do what I do. Bob Ross
A true artist is not one who is inspired but one who inspires others. Salvador Dalí
Make art that makes you happy. Make art that makes you better. Make art that makes you money. Make art that makes a difference. Sahil Lavingia
If I’m going to be anything more than average, if anyone is going to remember me, then I need to go further, in art, in life, in everything! Salvador Dalí
The only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. Steve Jobs
The aim of every artist is to arrest motion, which is life, by artificial means and hold it fixed so that a hundred years later, when a stranger looks at it, it moves again since it is life. William Faulkner
Art is the queen of all sciences communicating knowledge to all the generations of the world. Leonardo da Vinci
With the pride of the artist, you must blow against the walls of every power that exists the small trumpet of your defiance. Norman Mailer
The artist must create a spark before he can make a fire and before art is born, the artist must be ready to be consumed by the fire of his own creation. Auguste Rodin
If art is to nourish the roots of our culture, society must set the artist free to follow his vision wherever it takes him. John F. Kennedy
My role in society, or any artist’s or poet’s role, is to try and express what we all feel. Not to tell people how to feel. Not as a preacher, not as a leader, but as a reflection of us all. John Lennon
He who works with his hands and his head and his heart is an artist. Francis of Assisi 
Instead of worrying about what people say of you, why not spend time trying to accomplish something they will admire. Dale Carnegie
It’s on the strength of observation and reflection that one finds a way. So we must dig and delve unceasingly. Claude Monet
To practice any art, no matter how well or badly, is a way to make your soul grow. So do it. Kurt Vonnegut
Stay firmly in your path and dare; be wild two hours a day. Paul Gauguin
I have been enlightened. I have fallen into poetry and it has swallowed me up. Keith Haring
Visions are worth fighting for. Why spend your life making someone else’s dreams? Tim Burton
Lord, grant that I may always desire more than I accomplish. Michelangelo
Not everyone can become a great artist, but a great artist can come from anywhere. Peter O’Toole
The most dangerous creation of any society is the man who has nothing to lose. James Baldwin
Great things are not done by impulse, but by a series of small things brought together. Vincent van Gogh
By working hard, old man, I hope to make something good one day. I haven’t yet, but I am pursuing it and fighting for it. Vincent van Gogh
One must spoil as many canvases as one succeeds with. Vincent van Gogh
If I close my eyes, I see things better than with my eyes open. Henri Matisse
We don’t make mistakes. We just have happy accidents. Bob Ross 
I am not an inventor. I steal everything. Anne Bogart
We have always been shamelss about stealing great ideas. Steve Jobs
There’s a fine line between genius and insanity. I have erased this line. Oscar Levant
It’s better to create something that others criticize than to create nothing and criticize others. Ricky Gervais
I just wanna make the world a better-looking place. If you don’t like it, you can paint over it! Banksy (Check out Banksy on Instagram)
People say graffiti is ugly, irresponsible and childish… but that’s only if it’s done properly. Banksy
We tell people sometimes: we’re like drug dealers, come into town and get everybody absolutely addicted to painting. It doesn’t take much to get you addicted. Bob Ross
There are three responses to a piece of design: yes, no and wow. Milton Glaser
If people would just look at the paintings, I don’t think they would have any trouble enjoying them. It’s like looking at a bed of flowers, you don’t tear your hair out over what it means. Jackson Pollock
As my artist’s statement explains, my work is utterly incomprehensible and is therefore full of deep significance. Calvin
The fact I myself do not understand what my paintings mean while I am painting them does not imply that they are meaningless. Salvador Dalí
The secret of my influence has always been that it remained secret. Salvador Dalí
If you understand a painting beforehand, you might as well not paint it. Salvador Dalí
I believe in general death but in the death of Dalí absolutely not. Salvador Dalí
What is originality? Undetected plagiarism. William Ralph Inge 
Artists are just children who refuse to put down their crayons. Al Hirschfeld
I’m not performing miracles, I’m using up and wasting a lot of paint. Claude Monet
The critic has to educate the public; the artist has to educate the critic. Oscar Wilde
Bus stops are far more interesting and useful places to have art than in museums. Banksy
The job of the artist is always to deepen the mystery. Francis Bacon 
You must have chaos within you to give birth to a dancing star. Friedrich Nietzsche
My paintings are not about what is seen. They are about what is known forever in the mind. Agnes Martin
All great art contains at its center contemplation, a dynamic contemplation. Susan Sontag
If art doesn’t make us better, then what on earth is it for. Alice Walker
Treat a work of art like a prince. Let it speak to you first. Arthur Schopenhauer
The achilles heel of an artist Lies in the hope that his art is good. Kapil Gupta
A work of art has no importance whatever to society. It is only important to the individual. Vladimir Nabokov
Forget yourself. Become one with eternity. Become part of your environment. Yayoi Kusama
The creative union of the conscious with the unconscious is what one usually calls ‘inspiration’. Leon Trotsky
Feeling and longing are the motive forces behind all human endeavor and human creations. Albert Einstein
What is important is to spread confusion, not eliminate it. Salvador Dalí
People love mystery, and that is why they love my paintings. Salvador Dalí
An artist is someone who produces things that people don’t need to have but that he – for some reason – thinks it would be a good idea to give them. Andy Warhol
Not everyone is capable of madness; and of those lucky enough to be capable, not many have the courage for it. August Strindberg
Perhaps it’s true that I’m very hard on myself, but that’s better than exhibiting mediocre work… too few were satisfactory enough to trouble the public with. Claude Monet
It is a tragedy that we live in a world where physical courage is so common, and moral courage is so rare. Claude Monet
It is better to have done something than to have been someone. Claude Monet
I often painted fragments of things because it seemed to make my statement as well as or better than the whole could. Georgia O’Keeffe
The true painter must be able, with the most usual things, to have the most unusual ideas. Salvador Dalí
It’s not what you look at that matters, it’s what you see. Henry David Thoreau 
The creative process is a process of surrender, not control. Julia Cameron
I would like to paint the way a bird sings. Claude Monet
One person’s craziness is another person’s reality. Tim Burton
Art is a step in the known toward the unknown. Kahlil Gibran
Art helps us identify with one another and expands our notion of we – from the local to the global. Olafur Eliasson
See also: Why art has the power to change the world
Every line is the actual experience with its own unique story. Cy Twombly
The main thing in making art often is letting go of your expectation and your idea. Agnes Martin
There is no abstract art. You must always start with something. Afterward you can remove all traces of reality. Pablo Picasso
Most people die before they are fully born. Creativeness means to be born before one dies. Erich Fromm
So much time is wasted on trying to be better than others. Elijah Wood
An artist is a dreamer consenting to dream of the actual world. George Santayana
The artist must train not only his eye but also his soul. Wassily Kandinsky
There is no must in art because art is free. Wassily Kandinsky 
The thermometer of success is merely the jealousy of the malcontents. Salvador Dalí
The Revolution introduced me to art, and in turn, art introduced me to the Revolution! Albert Einstein
The painting rises from the brushstrokes as a poem rises from the words. The meaning comes later. Joan Miro
The public wants to understand and learn in a single day, a single minute, what the artist has spent years learning. Paul Gauguin
I don’t paint things. I only paint the difference between things. Henri Matisse
There is nothing more difficult for a truly creative painter than to paint a rose, because before he can do so he has first to forget all the roses that were ever painted. Henri Matisse
It is better to fail in originality than to succeed in imitation. Herman Melville
It is better to paint from memory, for thus your work will be your own. Paul Gauguin
Painting is easy when you don’t know how, but very difficult when you do. Edgar Degas
If I could say it in words there would be no reason to paint. Edward Hopper
Art is the most intense mode of individualism that the world has known. Oscar Wilde 
Art is not about thinking something up. It is the opposite – getting something down. Julia Cameron
Every portrait that is painted with feeling is a portrait of the artist, not of the sitter. Oscar Wilde
The artist is not a different kind of person, but every person is a different kind of artist. Eric Gill
He only moves toward the perfection of his art whose criticism surpasses his achievement. Leonardo da Vinci
Contrary to general belief, an artist is never ahead of his time but most people are far behind theirs. Edgard Varese
Practice what you know, and it will help to make clear what now you do not know. Rembrandt
An intellectual says a simple thing in a hard way. An artist says a hard thing in a simple way. Charles Bukowski
Art is not what you see, but what you make others see. Edgar Degas
An artist is not paid for his labor but for his vision. James Whistler
When love and skill work together, expect a masterpiece. John Ruskin
I feel that there is nothing more truly artistic than to love people. Vincent van Gogh
All art, like all love, is rooted in heartache. Alfred Stieglitz
Hatred is a parasite that devours all. One doesn’t build upon hatred, but upon love. Henri Matisse
These landscapes of water and reflection have become an obsession. Claude Monet
I would rather die of passion than of boredom. Emile Zola 
We should always remember that sensitiveness and emotion constitute the real content of a work of art. Maurice Ravel
Art and love are the same thing: It’s the process of seeing yourself in things that are not you. Chuck Klosterman
Works of art are of an infinite loneliness and with nothing so little to be reached as with criticism. Only love can grasp and hold and be just toward them. Rainer Maria Rilke
The artist is a receptacle for emotions that come from all over the place: from the sky, from the earth, from a scrap of paper, from a passing shape, from a spider’s web. Pablo Picasso
Love many things, for therein lies the true strength, and whosoever loves much performs much, and can accomplish much, and what is done in love is done well. Vincent Van Gogh
To labor in the arts for any reason other than love is prostitution. Steven Pressfield (The War Of Art)
It doesn’t matter how the paint is put on, as long as something is said. Jackson Pollock
(On how he knows when he’s finished) How do you know when you’re finished making love? Jackson Pollock
When I am in my painting, I’m not aware of what I’m doing. Jackson Pollock
I couldn’t give you something mediocre even if that’s all you asked for. Michelangelo
When you start a painting, it is somewhat outside you. At the conclusion, you seem to move inside the painting. Fernando Botero
If I create from the heart, nearly everything works; if from the head, almost nothing. Marc Chagall
Everyone discusses my art and pretends to understand, as if it were necessary to understand, when it is simply necessary to love. Claude Monet
Nothing can be accomplished without love. Henri Matisse
A work of art which did not begin in emotion is not art. Paul Cezanne
Art must be an expression of love or it is nothing. Marc Chagall
I am not sick. I am broken. But I am happy to be alive as long as I can paint. Frida Kahlo
Art evokes the mystery without which the world would not exist. Rene Magritte
Artwork is a representation of our devotion to life. Agnes Martin
Life is sometimes hard. Things go wrong, in life and in love and in business and in friendship and in health and in all other ways that life can go wrong. And when things get tough, this is what you should do. Make good art. Neil Gaiman
Without anxiety and illness I should have been like a ship without a rudder. Edvard Munch
Something is always born of excess: great art was born of great terrors, great loneliness, great inhibitions, instabilities, and it always balances them. Anais Nin
No longer shall I paint interiors with men reading and women knitting. I will paint living people who breathe and feel and suffer and love. Edvard Munch
I build a kind of wall between myself and t he model so that I can paint in peace behind it. Otherwise, she might say something that confuses and distracts me. Edvard Munch
Disease, insanity, and death were the angels that attended my cradle, and since then have followed me throughout my life. Edvard Munch
Someone else’s vision will never be as good as your own vision of your self. Live and die with it ’cause in the end it’s all you have. Lose it and you lose yourself and everything else. I should have listened to myself. Georgia O’Keeffe
I’ve been absolutely terrified every moment of my life – and I’ve never let it keep me from doing a single thing I wanted to do. Georgia O’Keeffe
Without the sense of fellowship with men of like mind, of preoccupation with the objective, the eternally unattainable in the field of art and scientific research, life would have seemed to me empty. Albert Einstein
The more ignoble I find life, the more strongly I react by contradiction, in humour and in an outburst of liberty and expansion. Joan Miro
One must work and dare if one really wants to live. Vincent van Gogh 
There may be a great fire in our soul, yet no one ever comes to warm himself at it, and the passers-by see only a wisp of smoke. Vincent van Gogh
Where the spirit does not work with the hand, there is no art. Leonardo da Vinci
Whatever you do in life, if you want to be creative and intelligent, and develop your brain, you must do everything with the awareness that everything, in some way, connects to everything else. Leonardo da Vinci
Life is more important than art; that’s what makes art important. James Baldwin
Everything alters me, but nothing changes me. Salvador Dalí
Mistakes are almost always of a sacred nature, understand them thoroughly. Salvador Dalí
In a sense, as we are creative beings, our lives become our work of art. Julia Cameron
All true artists, whether they know it or not, create from a place of no-mind, from inner stillness. Eckhart Tolle
I value those artists who embody the expression of their life. Wassily Kandinsky
The meaning of life is to find your gift. The purpose of life is to give it away. Pablo Picasso
I paint objects as I think them not as I see them. Pablo Picasso
There are always flowers for those who want to see them. Henri Matisse
To look at something as though we had never seen it before requires great courage. Henri Matisse
Creativity is a lot like happiness. It shows up when you’re thinking of something else. Bert Dodson
Look around. Look at what we have. Beauty is everywhere – you only have to look to see it. Bob Ross
In my experience, the best creative work is never done when one is unhappy. Albert Einstein
Art is not a pleasure, a solace, or an amusement; art is a great matter. Art is an organ of human life, transmitting man’s reasonable perception into feeling. Leo Tolstoy
Art is a human activity having for its purpose the transmission to others of the highest and best feelings to which men have risen. Leo Tolstoy
Art is unquestionably one of the purest and highest elements in human happiness. It trains the mind through the eye, and the eye through the mind. As the sun colors flowers, so does art color life. John Lubbock
There are some days when I think I’m going to die from an overdose of satisfaction. Salvador Dalí
Beauty should be edible, or not at all. Salvador Dalí
All I did was to look at what the universe showed me, to let my brush bear witness to it. Claude Monet
Every day I discover more and more beautiful things. It’s enough to drive one mad. I have such a desire to do everything, my head is bursting with it. Claude Monet
I haven’t many years left ahead of me and I must devote all my time to painting, in the hope of achieving something worthwhile in the end, something if possible that will satisfy me. Claude Monet
I think it’s so foolish for people to want to be happy. Happy is so momentary – you’re happy for an instant and then you start thinking again. Interest is the most important thing in life; happiness is temporary, but interest is continuous. Georgia O’Keeffe
A simple line painted with the brush can lead to freedom and happiness. Joan Miro 
We must do our work for its own sake, not for fortune or attention or applause. Steven Pressfield (The War Of Art)
The best and most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even touched – they must be felt with the heart. Helen Keller
Every morning when I wake up, I experience an exquisite joy – the joy of being Salvador Dalí – and I ask myself in rapture: What wonderful things is this Salvador Dalí going to accomplish today?” Salvador Dalí
After a certain high level of technical skill is achieved, science and art tend to coalesce in aesthetics, plasticity, and form. The greatest scientists are artists as well. Albert Einstein
Personally, I experience the greatest degree of pleasure in having contact with works of art. They furnish me with happy feelings of an intensity that I cannot derive from other sources. Albert Einstein
Great art is indefinable but that’s all right; it exists anyway. Edward Abbey
Great art transcends its culture and touches on that which is eternal. Madeleine L’Engle
Photography my passion, the search for truth, my obsession. Alfred Stieglitz
Blessed are they who see beautiful things in humble places where other people see nothing. Camille Pissarro
I decided that if I could paint that flower in a huge scale, you could not ignore its beauty. Georgia O’Keeffe
Filling a space in a beautiful way – that is what art means to me. Georgia O’Keeffe
Artists to my mind are the real architects of change. William S. Burroughs
The purpose of art is mystery. Rene Magritte
Man needs music, literature, and painting – all those oases of perfection that make up art – to compensate for the rudeness and materialism of life. Fernando Botero
Art is restoration: the idea is to repair the damages that are inflicted in life, to make something that is fragmented – which is what fear and anxiety do to a person – into something whole. Louise Bourgeois
Healing yourself is connected with healing others. Yoko Ono
The arts are not a way to make a living. They are a very human way of making life more bearable. Kurt Vonnegut
The function of the artist in a disturbed society is to give awareness of the universe, to ask the right questions, and to elevate the mind. Marina Abramovic
The activity of art is… as important as the activity of language itself, and as universal. Leo Tolstoy
The aim of art is to represent not the outward appearance of things, but their inward significance. Aristotle
My art is capable of liberating man from the tyranny of the ‘practical, rational world.’ Salvador Dalí
In art, and in the higher ranges of science, there is a feeling of harmony which underlies all endeavor. There is no true greatness in art or science without that sense of harmony. Albert Einstein
One of the strongest motives that lead men to art and science is escape from everyday life with its painful crudity and hopeless dreariness, from the fetters of one’s own ever-shifting desires. Albert Einstein
For as long as I can remember I have suffered from a deep feeling of anxiety which I have tried to express in my art. Edvard Munch
Art is an escape from reality. Henri Matisse
Art should be something that liberates your soul, provokes the imagination and encourages people to go further. Keith Haring
Whatever you do, the only secret is to believe in it and satisfy yourself. Don’t do it for anyone else. Keith Haring
Art should comfort the disturbed and disturb the comfortable. Banksy 
Life beats down and crushes the soul and art reminds you that you have one. Stella Adler
For me, painting is a way to forget life. It is a cry in the night, a strangled laugh. Georges Rouault
What art offers is space – a certain breathing room for the spirit. John Updike
The artist has one function–to affirm and glorify life. W. Edward Brown
I want to touch people with my art. I want them to say “he feels deeply, he feels tenderly”. Vincent Van Gogh
The goal of art was the vital expression of self. Alfred Stieglitz
A good painter has two main objects to paint, man and the intention of his soul. The former is easy, the latter hard as he has to represent it by the attitude and movement of the limbs. Leonardo da Vinci
All the sorrow, all the bitterness, all the sadness, I forget them and ignore them in the joy of working. Camille Pissarro
The attitude that nature is chaotic and that the artist puts order into it is a very absurd point of view, I think. All that we can hope for is to put some order into ourselves. Willem de Kooning
I am an artist because the knot is so powerful I just can not, nor want to be, anything else or do anything else. Elisabeth Kubler-Ross
The purpose of art is washing the dust of daily life off our souls. Pablo Picasso
Art washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life. Pablo Picasso
See also: 7 Ways Art Improves Quality of Life
Painting is just another way of keeping a diary. Pablo Picasso
An artist discovers his genius the day he dares not to please. Andre Malraux
Art is the only way to run away without leaving home. Twyla Tharp
Creativity is the residue of time wasted. Albert Einstein
I am enough of an artist to draw freely upon my imagination. Albert Einstein
The most seductive thing about art is the personality of the artist himself. Paul Cezanne
You are born alone. You die alone. The value of the space in between is trust and love. Louise Bourgeois
See also: Artist Louise Bourgeois on How Solitude Enriches Creative Work
Painting must be fertile. It must give birth to a world… it must fertilize the imagination. Joan Miro
If everyone is thinking alike, then somebody isn’t thinking. George S. Patton
They thought I was a Surrealist, but I wasn’t. I never painted dreams. I painted my own reality. Frida Kahlo
Every new idea is just a mashup or a remix of one or more previous ideas. Austin Kleon
They say everything looks better with odd numbers of things. But sometimes I put even numbers – just to upset the critics. Bob Ross
Creativity often consists of merely turning up what is already there. Bernice Fitz-Gibbon
Creativity requires the courage to let go of certainties. Erich Fromm
Candor could not be more crucial to our creative process. Why? Because early on, all of our movies suck. Ed Catmull (Pixar)
The most creative people are willing to work in the shadow of uncertainty. Ed Catmull (Pixar)
I have no fear of making changes, destroying the image, etc., because the painting has a life of its own. Jackson Pollock
Self-doubt can be an ally. This is because it serves as an indicator of aspiration. Steven Pressfield (The War Of Art)
Are you paralyzed with fear? That’s a good sign. Fear is good. Like self-doubt, fear is an indicator. Fear tells us what we have to do. Steven Pressfield
If at first the idea is not absurd, then there is no hope for it. Albert Einstein
I’d like to pretend that I’ve never seen anything, never read anything, never heard anything, and then make something. Keith Haring
I want to express my feelings rather than illustrate them. Jackson Pollock 
No great artist ever sees things as they really are. If he did, he would cease to be an artist. Oscar Wilde
Do not imitate one another’s style. If you do, so far as your art is concerned you will be called a grandson, rather than the son of Nature. Leonardo da Vinci
Whether you succeed or not is irrelevant, there is no such thing. Making your unknown known is the important thing–and keeping the unknown always beyond you. Georgia O’Keeffe
Creativity is more than just being different. Anybody can plan weird; that’s easy. What’s hard is to be as simple as Bach. Making the simple, awesomely simple, that’s creativity. Charles Mingus
Don’t think. Thinking is the enemy of creativity. It’s self-conscious, and anything self-conscious is lousy. You can’t try to do things. You simply must do things. Ray Bradbury
You cannot be all things to all people. Be unique. Be different. Give to others what you want yourself. And do what you were made to do. Robert Kiyosaki
The modern artist… is working and expressing an inner world – in other words – expressing the energy, the motion, and other inner forces. Jackson Pollock
Sometimes people say I should see a therapist, but I don’t want any therapist wrecking my weirdness. Peter Wolf
My great mistake, the fault for which I can’t forgive myself, is that one day I ceased my obstinate pursuit of my own individuality. Oscar Wilde
The one who walks alone, is likely to find himself in places no one has ever been. Albert Einstein
To this day, no one has come up with a set of rules for originality. There aren’t any. Les Paul
My work is always better when I am alone and follow my own impressions. Claude Monet
I want to be important. By being different. And these girls are all the same. Sylvia Plath
I am still learning. Michelangelo
You can’t learn techniques and then try to become a painter. Techniques are a result. Jackson Pollock
I’m not telling you it’s going to be easy – I’m telling you it’s going to be worth it. Art Williams
The worst thing you can think about when you’re working is yourself. Agnes Martin
You can’t be content with mastery; you have to push yourself to become a student again. Austin Kleon
If you ever find that you’re the most talented person in the room, you need to find another room. Austin Kleon
Start copying what you love. Copy copy copy copy. At the end of the copy you will find your self. Austin Kleon
If you steal from one author, it’s plagiarism; if you steal from many, it’s research. Wilson Mizner
I was never capable of being an average pupil. I would either seem refractory to any teaching and give the impression of being completely dumb or I would fling myself on my work with a frenzy, a patience, and a willingness to learn that astonished everybody. But to awaken my zeal, it was necessary to offer me something I liked. Once my appetite had been whetted, I became ravenously hungry. Salvador Dalí
I have come to believe that a great teacher is a great artist and that there are as few as there are any other great artists. Teaching might even be the greatest of the arts since the medium is the human mind and spirit. John Steinbeck
More important than a work of art itself is what it will sow. Art can die, a painting can disappear. What counts is the seed. Joan Miro
If only I’d known my differentness would be an asset, then my earlier life would have been much easier. Bette Midler
The progress of an artist is a continual self-sacrifice, a continual extinction of personality. T. S. Eliot
It is the supreme art of the teacher to awaken joy in creative expression and knowledge. Albert Einstein 
One must, of course, have one’s entire experience behind one and not have lost the freshness of instinct. Henri Matisse
All artists are willing to suffer for their work. But why are so few prepared to learn to draw? Banksy
I decided to start anew – to strip away what I had been taught, to accept as true my own thinking. Georgia O’Keeffe
The surest way to corrupt a youth is to instruct him to hold in higher esteem those who think alike than those who think differently. Friedrich Nietzsche
It is a widely accepted notion among painters that it does not matter what one paints as long as it is well painted. This is the essence of academicism. Mark Rothko
The most valuable thing a teacher can impart to children is not knowledge and understanding per se but a longing for knowledge and understanding, and an appreciation for intellectual values, whether they be artistic, scientific, or moral. Albert Einstein
A society’s competitive advantage will come not from how well its schools teach the multiplication and periodic tables, but from how well they stimulate imagination and creativity. Albert Einstein
The great moral teachers of humanity were in a way artistic geniuses in the art of living. Albert Einstein
The value of an education in a liberal arts college is not learning of many facts but the training of the mind to think something that cannot be learned from textbooks. Albert Einstein
The seed of your next artwork lies embedded in the imperfections of your current piece. David Bayles
Our job in this life is not to shape ourselves into some ideal we imagine we ought to be, but to find out who we already are and become it. Steven Pressfield (The War Of Art)
Don’t worry about how you ‘should’ draw it. Just draw it the way you see it. Tim Burton
I am always doing that which I can not do, in order that I may learn how to do it. Pablo Picasso
Poor is the pupil who does not surpass his master. Leonardo da Vinci
Everybody draws when they are little. Keith Haring
Old age is a hindrance to creativity but cannot crush my youthful spirit. Rembrandt 
Every child is an artist. The problem is how to remain an artist once he grows up. Pablo Picasso
The great geniuses are those who have kept their childlike spirit and have added to it breadth of vision and experience. Alfred Stieglitz
Anybody with artistic ambitions is always trying to reconnect with the way they saw things as a child. Tim Burton
There is nothing that makes me happier than making a child smile. Keith Haring
The main thing is to be moved, to love, to hope, to tremble, to live. Be a man before being an artist! Auguste Rodin
Not everyone will understand your journey. That’s okay. You’re here to live your life, not to make everyone understand. Banksy
In order to produce something new, you have to return to the original source, to the childhood of mankind. Paul Gauguin
A young man who is unable to commit a folly is already an old man. Paul Gauguin
You need the dark in order to show the light. Bob Ross
Some colors reconcile themselves to one another, others just clash. Edvard Munch
Color is a power which directly influences the soul. Wassily Kandinsky
Color is a means to exert a direct influence on the soul. Wassily Kandinsky
Color is the keyboard. The eye is the hammer. The soul is the piano, with its many strings. Wassily Kandinsky
There is no blue without yellow and without orange. Vincent van Gogh (Did he mean that there’s no sadness without happiness?)
I often think that the night is more alive and more richly colored than the day. Vincent van Gogh
Color is my day-long obsession, joy and torment. Claude Monet 
It is only after years of preparation that the young artist should touch color – not color used descriptively, that is, but as a means of personal expression. Henri Matisse
I’ve been forty years discovering that the queen of all colors is black. Henri Matisse
It is with color that you render light, though you must also feel this light, have it within yourself. Henri Matisse
I found I could say things with color and shapes that I couldn’t say any other way – things I had no words for. Georgia O’Keeffe
The point is to know how to use the colors, the choice of which is, when all’s said and done, a matter of habit. Claude Monet
Critic asks: ‘And what, sir, is the subject matter of that painting?’ – ‘The subject matter, my dear good fellow, is the light. Claude Monet
What I need most of all is color, always, always. Claude Monet
Without atmosphere a painting is nothing. Rembrandt
Finish the work, otherwise an unfinished work will finish you. Amit Kalantri
Another year is ending, but something is pending. Ernest Agyemang Yeboah
I’m never finished with my paintings; the further I get, the more I seek the impossible and the more powerless I feel. Claude Monet
Above all, an artist must never be too easily satisfied with what he has done. Henri Matisse
No great work of art is ever finished. Michelangelo 
There are dozens of unfinished or aborted projects in my files, but I can only assume they don’t get done because they’re not robust enough to struggle through the birth process. Grant Morrison
I know the sag of the unfinished poem. And I know the release of the poem that is finished. Mary Oliver
You are an unfinished work in progress. One of the good things about life’s challenges: you get to find out that you’re capable of being far more than you ever thought possible. Karen Salmonsohn
I never want projects to be finished; I have always believed in unfinished work. I got that from Schubert, you know, the ‘Unfinished Symphony’. Yoko Ono
I always believed that my work should be unfinished in the sense that I encourage people to add their creativity to it, either conceptually or physically. Yoko Ono
When I’m playing, I’m never through. It’s unfinished. I like to find a place to leave for someone else to finish it. That’s where the high comes in. Miles Davis
I know I will leave my work unfinished. I just hope I planted enough seeds in my children and grandchildren that they will continue. David Robinson
Can anything be sadder than work left unfinished? Yes, work never begun. Christina Rossetti
A man should hear a little music, read a little poetry, and see a fine picture every day of his life, in order that worldly cares may not obliterate the sense of the beautiful which God has implanted in the human soul. Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
Art is a collaboration between God and the artist, and the less the artist does the better. Andre Gide
Only God creates. The rest of us just copy. Michelangelo
Painting is the grandchild of nature. It is related to God. Rembrandt
Practicing an art, no matter how well or badly, is a way to make your soul grow, for heaven’s sake. Sing in the shower. Dance to the radio. Tell stories. Write a poem to a friend, even a lousy poem. Do it as well as you possible can. You will get an enormous reward. You will have created something. Kurt Vonnegut 